
matar paneer is a delicious dish made by cooking paneer & green peas in spicy onion tomato masala.  This recipe will give you restaurant style creamy & rich matar paneer. It tastes amazing to serve with rice, naan or paratha.

Prep Time10 minutes
Cook Time35 minutes
Total Time45 minutes

Servings 4
Author Swasthi

To fry & puree
    1 tbsp oil
    2 cardamoms or elaichi
    3 garlic cloves
    1 inch ginger or adrak (cut to pieces)
    1 cup onions cubed (1 large or 2 medium)
    1.5 cup tomatoes (2 large) chopped
    10 cashewnuts
    1/2 tsp Salt

For matar paneer gravy
    2 tbsp oil or butter
    1 inch cinnamon or dalchini (optional)
    1 small bay leaf (optional)
    1 tsp red chili powder (less spicy variety)
    1/8 tsp turmeric or haldi
    1 tsp garam masala
    1/2 tsp coriander powder
    1 cup green peas or matar (boiled or frozen)
    1 cup water (use more if needed)
    1 green chili deseeded & slit 
    250 grams paneer or indian cottage cheese
    1 tsp Kasuri methi or dried fenugreek leaves
    1/4 tsp salt 
    2 tbsp coriander leaves or cilantro
    3 to 4 tbsp cream

How to make the recipe

    Preparation for mutter paneer
        If using store bought paneer, soak it in a bowl of hot water for 20 mins. Drain the water and use. This step helps to keep the paneer soft.
        Pour 1 tbsp oil to a hot pan. 
        When the oil turns hot, add 2 green cardamoms, ginger & garlic. 
        Fry for a minute.
        Next add 1 cup chopped onions & fry until they turn light golden. 
        Put in 1½ cup tomatoes, 1/8 tsp turmeric and ¼ tsp salt. 
        Saute for 2 to 3 mins. Cook covered until soft & mushy. 
        Add 10 cashews. Cool this completely. Make a fine puree of this in a blender without water.

    How to make matar paneer
        Heat 2 tbsps oil in the same pan. 
        Saute 1 inch cinnamon & 1 bay leaf for a minute. 
        Pour the pureed onion tomato mixture.
        Add 1 tsp chili powder, ¾ to 1 tsp garam masala and ½ to ¾ tsp coriander powder. 
        Saute until the masala leaves the sides of the pan. Keep stirring to prevent burning.
        Next add ½ to ¾ cup green peas. 
        Pour 1 to 1 ¼ cups water. If using fresh peas, boil them until tender in a pot, drain and use. If using frozen peas then you can rinse and use. 
        Mix well to make a thick gravy. Add more water if needed.
        Mix and cook covered on a medium heat until the gravy thickens and traces of oil appear over the gravy.
        Crush 1 tsp kasuri methi in your palm & sprinkle all over. Mix well. 
        Check salt and add more if needed.
        Add paneer & 1 slit green chili 
        Cover and cook just for 2 mins. Sprinkle coriander leaves and cream. 
        Stir well. Serve matar paneer with rice, naan or paratha.
